# CiviC Skeleton
This gives a base for your own civicc compiler.

## Getting started
First make sure you have all dependencies installed. The full dependencies of CoCoNut are listed on the main [GitHub](https://github.com/CoCoNut-UvA/coconut) repository. On
Ubuntu these can be installed using:
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install build-essential cmake bison flex graphviz
```
For macOS, see [macOS dependencies](#macos-dependencies).

Now clone this repo:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/CoCoNut-UvA/civicc-skeleton.git civicc
cd civicc
./configure.sh
```
If everything went correctly, a build-debug directory is created.
Run
```bash
make -C build-debug
```
to build your compiler.

**IMPORTANT**: After cloning, you should change the remote to point to a **private** repo you control.
You can **not** achieve this via forking, because GitHub does not allow changing the visibility of a forked repo.

## VS Code support
For syntax highlighting of the CoCoNut DSL files (e.g. the `main.ccn` file), you can install the [nutcracker](https://github.com/CoCoNut-UvA/nutcracker/) extension from the Visual Studio Marketplace [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CoCoNut-UvA.nutcracker).

We provide a Linux configuration file in [`.vscode/c_cpp_properties.json`](.vscode/c_cpp_properties.json) that helps IntelliSense to find the header files generated by cocogen.
VS code should pick this up automatically; if you open a C file you should see CoCoNut-Linux in the bottom-right corner.

## Creating an archive
You can quickly create an archive for submitting to canvas as follows
```bash
make dist
```
this gets everything in your git repo and combines it with the used coconut version in one archive.
This should contain everything needed to hand in your assignments.
**NOTE:** Always check the resulting archive if it contains everything and builds correctly.

## Disabling the Address Sanitizer
If you just want ASAN to not report memory leaks (although we do recommend that you actually fix the leaks), you can add the following to src/main.c:
```c
/* Do not detect memory leaks when using AddressSanitizer. */
const char *__asan_default_options() {
    return "detect_leaks=0";
}
```

If you want to disable it entirely, edit the debug configuration in the [Makefile](./Makefile).
You may need to remove the build-debug folder and rerun `./configure.sh`.

## macOS dependencies
The following build dependencies are required on macOS:
```bash
brew install cmake coreutils binutils bison graphviz gnu-tar
```

You might also need to run the following for cmake to find Bison:
```bash
echo "export PATH=\"$(brew --prefix)/opt/bison/bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.zshrc
```

**Note:** Make sure to fully restart your terminal after adding this line to `.zshrc`, and also delete the folder `coconut/build` if it exists. Otherwise cmake will keep using the old unsupported Bison version that macOS ships with.
